I saw what happened to you with Bill c16
in Canada quickly following that in May
of the following year I watched they
were chasing or attempting to find Brett
Weinstein with baseball bats and then
when my wife said that I would be a
father I knew I better get a a grip on
what's going on in education I had seen
what's going on in the news and I knew
something was a foot you know there's
other parents that don't have the time
to dive into this stuff and don't
understand what's going on and they
should know and they should be informed
[Music]
hello
everybody I had the opportunity today to
speak to Logan
Lancing who is the author along with
James Lindsay who was a guest on my
podcast and is a force in his own right
obviously the new book The quering of
the American child well so what did we
talk about well we talked about the
intersection between Marxism and
postmodernism right the strange
intersection Marxism being a meta
narrative right
a theology that purports
to Encompass everything so a
totalitarian
theology allied with
a philosophical school that that
purports to claim that there are no
overarching meta narratives despite the
fact that Marxism is precisely one of
those how do those two things go
together well that's one of the things
we investigate the metastasis of Marxism
into postmodern queer Theory what is
queer Theory you ask well that's why you
have to watch the podcast it's not the
celebration of gay identity it's much
more than that and much less than that
at the same time uh it's a dark
discussion and it'll take you places
that in a happier time you might be
justified in your unwillingness to go
but we're not there at the moment folks
so down the rabbit hole today with Logan
Lancing and the queering of the American
child join
us so Mr laning you have two books the
woke war path which is an inquiry
essentially
into what Marxism and postmodernism
fundamentally the strange alliance
between those two things and then more
recently a very provocatively named book
titled book The quering of the American
child with James Lindsay and so I want
to wander through the domains covered by
both of those books and I I thought I
might as we start by asking you a fairly
blunt question and it's a question I
torment myself with I would say um the
claims from the radicals on the left is
that they're all about the good things
they're all about compassion they're all
about diversity they're all about
inclusivity they're all about Equity how
can anyone oppose such Noble views how
do you know that all of your theorizing
isn't just a ask for your H your weird
bigotry you know to use the terminology
that seems to have come rampaging out of
the woodwork with the camela
Harris uh coronation so but I I'm very
curious about this you know I mean
people accuse me of being a bigot for
example um being
homophobic for
example whatever the phobia of the month
is there's an accusation that goes along
with it
what what makes you think that you're
not that those epets don't apply
appropriately to
you um well I think the left has done a
very good job at deceiving a lot of
people when they use the words diversity
equity and inclusion uh they may share
your language but they don't share your
dictionary those terms have been
deceptively defined and we when they're
in a Social Circle where suspecting
people are present those words mean one
thing and then as soon as they've got an
ounce of power they immediately turn to
the
esoteric definitions that they've got
for those terms and employ them
so I mean I know myself I know I'm none
of those things and I know a majority of
people that the left come for are not
those things but under their definitions
of those terms there is no one who could
Escape being labeled those things
because they're all encompassing they've
got an ism or a phobia for everything on
the planet and they're always going to
find one so you're never you're never
going to escape that if you're someone
they want to come after and of course
those terms are used you know racism
homophobia bigotry they're used to shut
you up so you don't talk they're used to
drive ideological
Conformity okay so so one of the things
that I've seen recently because I've
been going after um the right
Wing Psychopathic troll demons that
inhabit the virtual universe and
uh especially with regards to their
anti-Semitism because I've seen a I've
seen a dreadful spike in anti-Semitism
not only since October 7th when it's
become painfully obvious to anyone whose
eyes are open that that's precisely
what's happening but long before that
not least
because there was some associ iation
between me for example and Ben Shapiro
and then of course I joined forces with
the daily wire which everyone knows is
run by a cabal of evil Jews even though
the CEO is a Evangelical Christian so
I've seen the worst of the bigots maybe
the worst I mean hell's a bottomless pit
so the worst is a long ways down but
there there is no shortage of the
bigoted types that the radical Leti like
to point to now I personally don't
believe that the right-wing anti-semites
are as much of a danger to the Jews and
to the general population as the left
left-wing anti-semites I believe there's
far fewer of them for example and that
their arguments are much more
transparent and uh much less credible in
a sense in an intellectual sense but
they're still as nasty a bunch of scum
rats as you could hope to uh array and
so those people exist and
so when we're battling against Monsters
as nche pointed out you know if you look
too long into the abyss then the abyss
tends to look into you and that if
you're fighting monsters you have to be
very careful not to become one yourself
and so I'm going to push you again on
this a bit so I've been thinking about
Chris rufo for example who's been a very
effective uh counter propagandist you
might say in Florida uh he's
certainly put a bee in the Bonnet of
Harvard University and fought a pretty
decent fight with regards to the
unsuitability of Claudine gay to serve
there as president
um the
DeSantis Administration along with rufo
are making moves to implement a certain
degree of political control control over
the content of at least one University
in Florida and that would mean that
there would be like one new conservative
University compared to 99% of the
radical leftist universities but there's
still a danger there you know and the
danger is that the
political starts to explicitly permeate
the educational and you could say well
the leftists walked right into that
because of their insistence that the
ideolog perate permeates the educational
but it still
doesn't look to me like that excuses the
potential for an equivalent error on the
more conservative side so you know you
said you know that you're not a bigot
and you're not a homophobe Etc but I
would say most people who might deserve
those epithets not all of them would
also claim that they're not and so what
is it about what you're doing that makes
you think that you're a reliable
commentator on such matters and that
you're not just acting out some variant
of your own personality pathology by
going after the you know the hyper
compassionate
all-inclusive utopians of the of the
leftwing
sphere yeah so I'd start with a just a a
quick note on the point
about you indicated that you know the
left has control of what 90 95% of
social institutions were really worry
about it in education that's where my
work is primarily concerned what do we
do when the right becomes very explicit
about their intention to look at the
left and say look what they're doing we
should be able to do the same and I
would just quickly note we can get into
this later if you want that that's
precisely playing into the the hand of
the ideology at the core of the left
which is based in Conflict they need two
polls to move history forward that's
really the core of their faith they need
conflict to progress and they don't care
what that conflict looks like as long as
things are destroyed in the path so I
think that they welcome someone like a
Christopher rufo figure coming in and
saying we are going to have certain
values and we are going to be political
and whatever it is we do I think they
welcome that because that plays right
into their their dialectical game well
it it it goes back to the issue of you
know your own feelings about your own
trustworthiness as a commentator I mean
yeah yeah yeah well you know we do have
ingroup preferences for example as human
beings we tend to prefer the familiar
and there's going to be a certain amount
of probably at least racial preference
that goes along with that
that's in reflexive you know that that
takes a certain amount of conscious
effort to overcome and
so you see now and then I think it was
David was it David Brooks I don't
remember someone wrote an AR in the New
York Times who said you know are we the
bad guys and so that's a question that
people should always ask themselves and
so you wrote These pretty provocative
books the woke war path the quering of
the American child that's particularly
provocative title um why aren't you
precisely the sort of bad guy that the
leftists like to point to and are you in
the same camp would you say then also as
as someone like Chris rufo um that's a
good question and I'm not sure
uh but what I will say in terms of my
trustworthiness I wouldn't consider my
myself an expert in anything it's almost
like a derogatory term nowadays to hail
around uh the title of expert all I have
done which is nothing special is I've
spent years the last five years reading
the left's literature on their own terms
and just sharing it saying look everyone
this is what they're saying this is from
this book this is from from this
academic is anyone aware of this liter I
haven't done anything special it's just
a lot and a lot of reading and saying
this is what's out there this explains
why the left takes these actions and not
these actions this is how the left
thinks about this issue and it's all
explicitly done on their own terms I
worry quite a lot uh I beat myself up a
lot while I was writing those books
because I'm I'm very concerned about
misrepresenting someone's ideas I just
it it's just a deep-seated fear I don't
know what it is about my psychology but
knowingly misrep representing someone is
something I've always tried to avoid I
would never knowingly do that so knowing
that uh the thing I thought that I could
best do is just share their words
exactly as they've placed them on the
page and people can determine what they
want to do with that information however
they'd like but they should be aware of
it because those in charge of educ have
been doing this for a very long time and
they've been writing things for a very
long time and we've ignored them for far
too long okay okay so you're construing
yourself it sounds like you're
construing yourself essentially as a as
a journalist and so your case is well
here's what the left says you can read
it I've cated it you can read it and you
can decide for yourself is that fair
enough okay let's walk through the woke
war path okay so so lay out your thesis
with regards let's say to Marxism and
postmodernism let's start with the woke
war
path lay lay out what you see as the
philosophical underpinnings the where
are we with the philosophy of the
radical left and is is the combination
of Marxism and postmodernism the right
initial lens to view that
through yes uh precisely um so I'll kind
I'll try and keep track of the the um
things I want to explain here and I cuz
I first heard you use the term yourself
Dr Peterson of postmodern neomarxism and
I remember thinking the first time I
heard it well that that makes no sense
postmodernism is postm Marxism how could
it possibly be that these two things
have combined and the first time I saw
it used by a leftist academic in print
was from a man by the name of Peter
McLaren and he was writing in the 80s
and he was describing what the critical
Marxist project the critical Marxist
tradition was doing was Tak postmodern
principles and applying them to Identity
politics and education so that was the
first kind of verification that I saw
that okay Peterson's on to something
here uh to your question about what is
at the core of Marxism this is uh one of
the things I'm most proud of with the
queering of the American child I didn't
delve too much into it in the woke war
path because I don't think I understood
it at that level yet um but the heart of
Marxism in my view and I think I could
speak for Dr Lindsay but have him on and
let him you know give his interpretation
is that Marxism is a theology it's not
an economic theory if you read the
philos the economic and philosophic
manuscripts I think Marx is very clear
uh he says human beings are creative and
we're social now I'm a pretty plain guy
I'm not not an academic I have no
special training I don't I still don't
consider myself a
writer so I'm going to put this in plain
terms when Mark says human beings are
creative he
means we we see something in the world
like a stick and we've got a vision in
our head of what we want to turn that
stick into we've got a vision on our
head of what we want the world to look
like so maybe I want to make a spear I
grab a sharp Rock I start cutting away
at the stick I Whittle out away I slowly
match what's in my head to the physical
reality of my world that's what Marx
meant by humans have a creative nature
and in that the the deeper meaning of
that is that when we look into the
world we see ourselves
reflecting back at us we see our
creativity our subjective thoughts the
vision of my spear objectified in the
real world and what he said is we look
out into the world we're humanizing with
our creativity and it reflects back our
human nature and we see ourselves as
Gods essentially is what it comes down
to uh Mark said our species being is
also social that's our spiritual species
property to use his own terms and what
he means by that is we're not born in
the world alone we're not born in a
vacuum he said the tradition of all dead
Generations weighs like a nightmare on
the brains of the living meaning we're
born into a world that's already been
humanized we're born into a world where
other people have used their creative
potential to transform the world into
their Vision so in a sense our conscious
the burden of what has been right yes
exactly and do a little hand J
and uh right and a cackle an evil cackle
that like curls your spine right and
what freezes the blood of small
children and what Mark said is because
we we've got this creative potential to
transform our world into our own vision
and we're a social creature uh what
those things differentiate us from the
animals and because we can do those
things we make history meaning when I'm
born I'm born into a world others have
worked on they've already trans form
nature if I'm born in a tri primitive
tribe I'm not going to be going and
creating a space fairing civilization so
the history of the people that have come
before me preloads my Consciousness and
that makes history and then the people
in my present my present tribe whatever
you want your your city those of us uh
attempting to send Rockets to Mars we
then socialize the Next Generation into
the world and Marx's whole theology is
the idea that we can arrest this process
of History we can direct it it's not
something that just has to happen and
it's incumbent on
those who are oppressed to arrest it
because the group in power who's created
the society uh with capitalism it would
be the Bourgeois and their private
property and the laws rules and
regulations that have been built up to
solidify their social status and their
domination they're not going to
overthrow history and direct history in
the direction we want it because they're
pretty set they're enjoying their lives
they're happy so it's incumbent on the
oppressed to become conscious of this
fact that we can arrest history and we
can direct it and that's Marx's program
the arresting of History through
conflict to drive it to an ultimate end
point one where we look out in the world
and it reflects our Humanity back onto
us we Mark said when
we look into the world and we're one
with nature and nature is one with us uh
I think his precise words to describe it
in almost biblical terms was he said
that when man looks out and he revolves
around himself as his own true son I
mean it doesn't get any more theological
than that so I think that's that's the
heart of it and everything deres from
that it doesn't make sense that it's an
economic theory it never has that's why
over 100 million people
died starving to death in the dark
that's why it doesn't work because he
mapped his economics on top of a
theology to sell it is my
opinion security is top of mind for many
Americans during these crazy times
security for our country security for
our leaders and security for our
families but you're not financially
secure if all your eggs are in one
basket gold and silver are an excellent
way to diversify your savings they're a
hedge against inflation a physical asset
that is in high demand globally through
my friends at Birch gold group you can
own physical gold and silver in a tax
sheltered retirement account that's
right you can diversify an old Ira or
401K for no money out of pocket into an
IRA in gold and silver this is just one
thing you can do today to secure your
family's savings text Jordan to 98 9898
and receive a free no obligation info
kit to learn the role that precious
medals play in your overall saving
strategy again text Jordan to 98 9898
with an A+ rating with a Better Business
Bureau and thousands of happy customers
you can trust Birch gold to help
diversify your savings and secure your
family's financial future text Jordan to
today okay okay so let's delve into the
theological side for a moment and then
we'll return to the postmodern element
okay so there's two things you laid out
as far as I am understanding what you're
saying and the the first is well the
some support for your argument that this
is a theological movement is that well
it is a post-religious movement and it's
also something that n predicted when he
discussed the death of God he said in
the world to power that the human race
would run an experiment in the 20th
century that would likely Doom millions
of
people to investigate the validity of a
resentment
predicated
communism and
that if we learned the proper lesson
from that then perhaps the sacrifice of
lives will would have proved valuable
and necessary now you know that's a hell
of a harsh thing to say but it's also
quite the remarkable prediction and of
course dovi saw the same things coming
especially in his book demons which is
as accurate a PR droma to the gulag
capelo as you could possibly hope for
okay so let's look at this theologically
so because I think it is a theology it's
a post-christian theology no it's an
anti-christian Theology and so part of
the reason it's anti-christian is
because Marx's fundamental
presupposition is that the god of power
does and should
rule right so that's quite a that's
quite a claim and I think actually you
can understand the attractiveness of
that claim especially on the economic
side because the idea that those that
there is a small minority of people who
hold comparative power in any human
social hierarchy has is true in some
manner it's particularly true if the
society is
corrupt and it is also the case that
even the most benevolent of social
organizations are corrupted to some
degree by power
and so power is a major league God you
might say and it's very attractive
intellectually especially if you're a
rather rigid reductionist and you don't
like to think in a sophisticated manner
is to reduce everything to power as
fukko did power and sexuality in fuko's
case and you can make a credible case
for that you can make a credible case
that your relationship with yourself is
one of power and your relationship with
your wife and your relationship with
your children and your so-called friends
and every economic relationship it's all
boils down to power and only the naive
think differently and so the world's a
war of power and that's not only an
anti-christian Doctrine in the most
fundamental way it's almost literally a
satanic Doctrine
because in the gospels for example
Christ is literally tempted by the Satan
who offers him power as an alternative
to the proper principle of sovereignty
okay so so so that's the first thing is
marxis Marxism is a Theology of power
all right the next thing is is that you
pointed out was that
um it's a dialectic of oppressed versus
oppressor and so that's also interesting
theologically because the story of Cain
and Abel is an oppressor versus
oppressed Theology and the spirit of
Cain is the spirit of the resentful
oppressed who Rebels against the what
would you say the upward striving
individual who makes the proper
sacrifices destroys him and Rebels
against God pridefully and
deceitfully right so that's another
theological element now the marxists
would say
well religion Christianity is the opiate
of the masses and perhaps Cain under the
sway of the Lucifer who's regarded as an
admirable rebel by the marxists
including Marx is uh the upholder of the
proper revolutionary Spirit but it's
certainly the case that the notion that
existence itself history itself all
relationships are a battleground of
power between the oppressor and the
oppressed is Central to Marxism as far
as I'm concerned it's not a Marxist idea
and of itself but it's Central to
Marxism and it's also a pretty damn
salable idea especi especially if you if
your culture is corrupted by
power
and you have your self-serving reasons
for regarding yourself as victimized and
oppressed you know that was what nche
objected to with regards to the
philosophy of resentment and Marx is
Marxism is the philosophy of resentment
WR large and the problem with that is
that there's a lot of things in life to
be resentful
about right so it's easy to sell it's
it's a doctrine that suits the
pathologically
immature and so okay so is there
anything in my characterization of
Marxism as a theology that's at odds
with the manner in which you're
construing it no I don't think so and a
a point to add is not only is it an easy
cell but it's a really easy cell to
Children which is the relevant area
where I'm most concerned you know adults
can be set in their ways um and of of
course you're going to have those with
psychopathologies that really find a lot
of value in resentment
and it how I conceive of it a religion
that answers all of their questions
about why they are where they are in
life and why
things what their purpose should be and
why they should be so resentful and they
should be justified in being resentful I
get that but with with children it's a
super super easy cell it's dividing the
world into black and white and it's easy
to replicate very easy to replicate you
know the the structure of classical
what's now called vulgar Marxism looks
something like this you have some people
who decide to create a society in the
classic vulgar sense and give themselves
a form of private property they create
the idea of private property and build
institutions around that to solidify it
and they it to themselves and they
justify this private property going to
themselves in an ideology called
capitalism that explains to everyone
that this is common sense neutral and
fair things have always been this way
they're justified in having what they
have you're justified in your low
position on the totem pole as a worker
and this is how things are going to be
and it's incumbent on those workers to
wake up to the fact that the call of
History has chosen them to move the
dialectic forward to take historical
materialism to the the next stage of
History you can map that in and part of
the point of the book The quering of the
American child is precisely this you can
map that a lot of different domains it's
amazing it took them this long to do it
I mean with critical race Theory you've
got white people who created a society
they've given themselves they've
invented and given themselves a
sociocultural private property called
whiteness Cheryl Harris in her paper it
was the late ' 80s or early '90s
literally uh said whiteness as property
was the title of the paper and right in
there she says it's akin to a bgea
private property they give it to
themselves they create an ideology of
white supremacy that says this is
neutral common sense and fair this is
how things have always been and it's
incumbent on the oppressed which in this
particular stance would be people who
happen to be black or people of color
anyone who's non-white to rise up and be
develop a instead of a class con cons
Consciousness it's been long day an
anti-racist Consciousness and to create
things like what ibra x kendi proposed
with the Department of anti-racism that
supersedes all laws and jurisdictions in
the United States so we can force this
on everyone and we're going to use
equity which is which is
socialism uh to redistribute access to
resources and we're going to sum
everything up within the sentence
abolition of whiteness rather than
abolition of private property as human
self-estrangement you can map that EX
exact structure onto queer Theory which
is some people in in society created a
form of soci sociocultural private
property called normaly or being normal
and they gave it to themselves and they
Ed that to stratify Society between
those have who have access to normaly
and all of the attendant Privileges and
those who don't they hide it in an
ideology of CIS heteronormativity that
explains to everyone that this is
neutral common sense and fair the way
things should be it's good to be normal
and it's incumbent on and I think this
requires a definition I can go into it
if you want but it's incumbent on those
who are queer and this is not a
statement of essential identity I can
explain precisely what I mean it does
not mean gay it does not mean lesbian
it's antithetical to a person happening
to be gay or lesbian but it's incumbent
on them to rise up and abolish normaly
as private property it's all the same
it's the same engine under the car
Jordan you know it's just it's just
painted differently it's just a
different flavor okay so now we've
talked we we've pulled postmodernism
into the discussion so you know my sense
was I got criticized a lot for using the
term postmodern neom marxists because
all the pseudo
intellectuals The Arrogant pseudo
intellectuals came out of the closet and
said well doesn't Peterson know that
postmodernism is predicated on the
rejection of of meta Nar and that
Marxism is a meta narrative and the
answer to that is well yeah actually
boys and girls I was perfectly well
aware of that and so that really wasn't
much of a critique as far as I was
concerned except one that was uh
simultaneously appallingly naive and
arrogant which is a hell of a
combination I saw the perverseness in
that because of course it was leotard
who proclaimed that the essence of
postmodernism was a skepticism regarding
metanarrative atives and by which he
really meant something like
judeo-christianity the judeo-christian
tradition but other meta narratives seem
to be perfectly acceptable so you could
have the meta Narrative of unbridled
Hedonism for example or The Meta
Narrative of unbridled power and for
some reason those escape the criticism
of meta narratives that in principle the
postmodernists were up in arms about and
so uh is that a contradiction well
obviously do postmodern neo-marxists
care about contradictions not in the
least so that's no criticism now my
sense was that Marxism was a philosophy
of resentment I think Marx picked the
axis along which resentment has the
greatest purchase because a small
minority of people do control a
disproportionate amount of the world's
wealth and resources economically um of
course that's the case with every
economic system that has ever been
developed and tried by any society
anywhere so to attribute that to
capitalism is uh ill-advised foolish
naive counterproductive and motivated
and certainly far from the fundamental
point so you have Marxism as this
oppressive versus oppressed narrative
metan narrative even and then what
happened with the postmodernist is they
metastasized that as you pointed out
they took exactly the same underlying
argument of resentment and turned it
into an explanation for a power
differential across all possible axis of
group comparisons in the human realm
ableism height uh height attractiveness
wealth although they downplay the
economic differences interestingly
enough sex even imaginary Dimensions
like gender you name it every possible
axis of Distinction became a narrative
of power and so that's the metastasis of
Marxism it's a much more perverse
version of Marxism and that's really
saying something because it's already an
incredibly perverse Doctrine now you
said when you heard me use that term to
begin with that you were perplexed or
skeptical let's say about that ju
toos so what I presume you're you have
changed your mind about that I have no
idea how that played into the
development of your thinking but has
your mind apparently your mind has
changed on that front how come
and is there a more accurate way of
formulating it do you think then the
metastases of Marxism let's say across
these multiple dimensions
no I haven't changed my mind and I came
to that conclusion by because I read I
read a lot again I don't have any uh
really you know i' I've got a four-year
degree I didn't spend any time in school
studying any of this I I fell into all
of this so I was starting from scratch
but I read enough of them saying that
that's precisely what it is it's the
critical Marxist tradition smashed into
the postmodern tactics uh and the first
time I read someone specifically State
this someone with some weight behind
their name was Kimberly khaw uh the
mother of CRT which was formed in in my
backyard in Madison Wisconsin in a in a
Convent here you know and and they say
right if you read Richard Delgado and
Jean Stefan stepanek's book CRT and
introduction written at the high school
level mind you uh and published in 2000
or 2001 they say in the beginning you
know we find ourselves at this convent
what an odd place for a bunch of
marxists but khaw States in her mapping
the margins paper that what she is doing
the project of critical race theory is
taking the critical Marxist tradition
the the identity po politics and
inserting the post-modern element into
it she's combining them it's a witch's
brew because postmodernism is a really
effective tool for them a tool that they
didn't have access to so uh I not only
read Kimberly khaw say that's precisely
what they're doing uh but again Peter
Mclaren has a great paper and the name
is escaping me right now from 1989 but
uh he was writing that that's precisely
what they're doing it's the critical
Marxist tradition and postmodernism but
the one that really sold it for me was
Joe kincho uh who is a critical
pedagogue in education he's he's since
passed uh but he is one of the people
who is responsible for outlining the
technical term for what woke is and that
is critical constructive ISM and when I
read Joe Kino's work I mean it just
absolutely jumped off the page that this
is precisely what what has happened the
critical marxists have adopted
post-modernism in their analysis they
use what they like they discard what
they don't like your point to your point
about contradiction contradictions
Jordan contradictions for marxists are a
fruitful sight of critique that's where
the magic happens that's where the
conflict happens that's what they're
supposed to be resolving uh so it's it's
no surprise that they enjoy
contradictions and it's no surprise that
they enjoy creating contradictions
because that's that's the whole game is
conflict and contradictions and
overcoming it well so when when when
there was some backlash to my diagnosis
let's say about the Unholy alliance
between the marxists and the
postmodernists it really took me a okay
because this wasn't something that I had
just conjured out up out of the theater
of my imagination as far as I was
concerned I read
these what
appalling luciferian arrogant
intellectuals and that's what they said
so I thought I was just describing what
was obvious it was like in the 1970s it
became declass to pronounce yourself a
Marxist particularly after soier niton
demonstrated Beyond any possible hope of
uh ejection that Stalin and lenon were
murderous repugnant murderous vicious
vile thieves and thugs beyond a shadow
of a doubt you couldn't be a Marxist
anymore so it's like Presto Chango
will'll just alter the terminology a bit
metastasize the entire philosophy of
resentment and away we go and as far as
I could tell that was exactly what Fuko
for example we might as well put him at
at the top of the Heap says he is the
world's most cited intellectual that's
essentially what Fuko said it wasn't
like I was inventing this and so the
fact that I got push back especially
from the leftists just well it made me
question my sanity for a while it was
like I'm pointing out what's obvious
here and you telling me that I don't
what I don't understand what I'm reading
I don't think so I actually tend to
understand what I'm reading especially
if I actually do the reading and so okay
okay so now we have this metam Marxist
witches brew as you pointed out and
Kimberly kensaw is a particularly
interesting case in point because she's
a psychi she's a a a professor of law
who thinks she's a psychiatrist except
her diagnostic ability is limited to
one let's say it one condition
everything is about a power disparity
it's like well Dr kensaw you're actually
not much of a diagnostician because it
turns out that most
complex social and psychological
pathologies have a multitude of causes
and you actually have to consider all of
them and you can't reduce everything to
a dialectic of power unless you're too
godamn stupid or crooked to not be able
to think in a more sophisticated manner
or you're motivated in that direction
and in her case I would say it's some
combination of stupid and crookedness
but it's certainly not sophisticated
okay so now we have we pulled in the now
let me make a case for the
postmodernists for a minute because one
of the things we might ask ourselves
is the marxists are attractive and they
can sell what they're offering because
resentment is a very powerful motivation
and because power does exist and it does
corrupt and you also pointed out that
it's particular easy to sell to young
people and I suppose that's partly
because it's not obvious to young people
why they shouldn't be resentful
especially if they've been hurt and also
because in many ways young people are at
the bottom of certain hierarchies of
power why well because they're young
most people who are rich are old now if
you had any sense you'd notice that well
young people are rich because they're
young whereas old people are poor
because they're old and most old rich
people would trade their wealth for
youth at the drop of a bloody hat but of
course that kind of gratitude doesn't
enter the dialogue and so it's easier to
sell resentment to young
people having said that so back to the
postmodernist issue the postmodernists
so why is postmodernism so attractive
well I have a hypothesis about that and
this is actually giving the devil is due
because the post po modernists were
right about one thing that the
enlightenment types are still wrong
about the postmodernists were right that
we see the world through a story they
were right about that and that's
actually a revolutionary claim because
the empiricist enlightenment rationalist
types tend to presume that we can view
the world through something like the
lens of objectivity and we can use the
objective facts to inform our narratives
but narrative itself is not the same
thing as as a scientific view of the
world so the
postmodernists did figure out and bless
their hearts so to speak they did figure
out that we live in psychologically live
inside the confines of a story and that
a story is what binds us socially and so
the post-modern metastasis of Marxism is
particularly potent because it can
Proclaim that we live within a story
that also makes it a theology let's say
and then it can say that the story is
one of power
and there's enough partial truth in both
those claims to make that a walloping
adversary because we do live in the
story and the story of power is what
would you
say it's one of the three most
compelling
stories right the story of Hedonism
that's very compelling story the story
of
Divine self-sacrifice that's a very
compelling story and the story of power
those are the three contenders and when
the story of divine self-sacrifice
collapses the story of power and its
twin bedfellow you might say Hedonism
they come popping up like mad something
that n observed would happen and doeski
as well so okay so look it looks like we
share something approximating a
diagnostic framework were you how did
you discover all of this like you said
you have a bachelor's degree this wasn't
your area of specialization it's like
what the hell took you down this Rabbit
Hole I'm still asking myself that
question um really the the answer
is um as I became a father uh I really
didn't care about politics or any of
this stuff and that all changed the
instant the the instant my wife told me
she was pregnant um I can't can't really
describe it it was
uh not a calling but it was I was just
draw you know what you know what it is I
became curious instantly I became more
curious about the world around me
because in the back of my head I was
thinking soon I'm going to have a child
here in 9 months and I
better take my responsibility seriously
and understand better what the hell is
happening around me um really what
happened prior to that prior to that
point which made it so easy once I
became a father to launch down this
particular path because it's not
just of course I wanted to better
understand the world as a whole but I
really got focused on education but
prior to that in 20 2016 you could call
it my my path to radicalization I saw
what happened to you with Bill c16 in
Canada that was the first time I kind of
woke up I you could describe me as
classically liberal and said well what
the hell is this we're supposed to Value
free speech and controlling someone's
tongue is not free speech it's tyranny
so what's this about what is my side
doing after that quickly following that
because correct me if I'm wrong I think
that happened in the the fall of 2016
was when you kind of exploded and you
know you were everywhere quickly
following that in May of the following
year I watched Evergreen State College
go into complete meltdown and I was
thinking what the hell is this uh I'll
never forget the images coming out of
there where the president of the college
was for that aren't aware was locked in
a room and told he's not leaving until
he meets the student demands and he
asked the student if he could go to the
bathroom and the student sat him down
and said you can wait this is the
president of a college in America I
couldn't believe it they were chasing or
attempting to find Brett Weinstein with
baseball bats what the hell is going on
I think then following that year there
was a brilliant engineer by the name of
James deore who was fired from Google
and
as far as I can tell after reading the
Google memo at the time the most
controversial thing he said was men and
women are different on average and I was
thinking how do you get fired for this
so I was kind of primed and then when my
wife said that I would be a father uh I
took that responsibility more seriously
than anything I ever have in my entire
life and I knew I better get a a grip on
what's going on in education I had seen
what's going on in the news and I knew
something was a foot and I started
reading and reading and reading and I've
been reading ever since uh so that's how
I ended up in a place that I never
imagined I would be and I don't
necessarily want to be in but you know
there's other parents that don't have
the time to dive into this stuff and
don't understand what's going on and
they should know and they should be
[Music]
informed it would be easy to toss all of
your discipline to the side for the
summer but a life of greatness doesn't
have by taking the easy route the Hallow
app offers an incredible range of guided
meditations and prayers which are
designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God for the third year in
a row hallow is having their wildly
popular Saints in 7 Days prayer
challenge where over the course of four
weeks you'll Journey Through the life of
an incredible Saint learning more about
their faith story and Ultimate Surrender
to the will of God in their life the
challenge will kick off August 5th with
Joe Missoula the coach of the Celtics
and Saint Sebastian the patron saint of
athletes then Rio Wahlberg will lead
meditations on the life of St Elizabeth
sattin followed by Jonathan Ry walking
through the powerful story of St
Maximillian kby who sacrificed his own
life for the life of another at aushwitz
closing the series with Father David
Michael Moses and blessed Pierre Georgio
fradi Saints in seven days goes deep
into the Lesser known parts of a Saints
life to show that while their Journeys
to sainthood were filled with God's
grace and Glory they also included human
struggles great suffering mistakes and a
profound need for God's mercy download
the hall app today at hall.com Jordan
for an exclusive 3-month trial that's
hall.com
Jordan yeah now you said
something worth delving into there many
things but one thing particularly caught
my my ear you said my
side so and you had regarded yourself as
a classic Liber I would certainly say
that that was really how I
conceptualized myself I never regarded
myself as a conservative I was an
admirer of Yung and dovi and they're
often regarded by radical left wiers as
conservative but um I don't really have
the temperament of a conservative
because I'm extremely high in openness
and um and so that makes me an unlikely
conservative um I guess I'm conservative
in so far as I do have some
understanding of just how absolutely and
utterly insane people can become in the
absence of an appropriate uniting meta
narrative let's say uh on the social
ethos side and I'm under no illusions at
least intellectually about that although
I tend to give people the benefit of the
doubt perhaps even when I shouldn't
that's a temperamental flaw that goes
along with agreeableness but um my side
so you regarded yourself as a classic
liberal apparently and
so what and you said that it was your
Dawning awareness that there was
something approximating free speech that
was being suppressed that made you start
to question question what were you a
Democrat let's say politically at this
point what have you said yeah absolutely
at the time I mean uh the entire time
and and and when I say my side I think
it's because at the time I I really
because of what now I would
appropriately I think call cult
conditioning had really split the world
into black and white I had thought it
was side by side versus side uh
oppressor versus oppressed and that's
why I think I thought that way um but it
was free speech to I I took that very
seriously because I'm somewhat a student
of History although an amateur and I
know what happens when free speech is
stifled and when someone else is allowed
to control your tongue and what happens
after that and it's it's just
disastrous and I remember feeling after
I saw that fall that okay that's that's
weird that's happening a lot I remember
thinking you know five minutes
ago there was no such thing as gender
identity there was no such thing as
gender reassignment surgery there was no
such thing as CIS heterosexuality
expression gender expression there was
no such thing as this and now that term
and now I've you know I've I've I've
awakened and I'm looking around and I'm
seeing it everywhere going everyone else
is just kind of acting like this has
always been this way have we all gone
mad where has this come from and that's
when the combination of seeing these
things happen to people like you and
James deore and the people at ever grain
State College and then becoming a father
that really ignited my curiosity to go
out and look because I thought okay so
so the father well the father elements
okay deore Weinstein myself that that
explains things conceptually yeah now
you said that when you became a father
one of the Transformations you took that
responsibility with a great degree of
seriousness more than anything in your
life well that's if you actually become
a father and you take that with the
degree of seriousness that you should
that is what happens to you that
actually means that you've grown up
finally because someone is more
important than you but it's very
interesting that it took this particular
form so was that what led to your
concentration on education and if so why
yeah precisely because I wanted to know
what schools my children were going to
walk into uh I had no idea what the
state of the educational system had been
but I had seen some concerning things
like schools segregating students on the
basis of their skin color that will
raise some red flags is that happening
everywhere I saw things like drag queens
performing in front of children as young
as four and five without parental
consent or knowledge in schools with
public dollars that'll raise some red
flags like just what the hell is going
on my child is going to go there to
school for seven or eight hours a day
what's happening there all of a sudden I
cared you know we all go to school and
we spend a large chunk of our lives in
education but it's it's quick how fast
you forget what it's like to be in there
and I wanted to know what changes had
precipitated since I had been in
education and uh like I said my
curiosity got the better of me and I
really took a deep dive okay so let
let's talk about education just for a
moment um and we can take a stripe off
the conservatives and the classic
liberals probably most particularly the
conservatives but also the classic
liberals who've been asleep at the
bloody wheel for four generation so
here's some fun things to contemplate so
the first thing is is
that education eats up 50% of the
typical State's budget
50% okay so half the money that you pay
in taxes at the state level goes
directly to the education system so
that's a lot of money and that doesn't
account for the amount of money that
goes to the education system at the
federal level so half that's a lot all
right so who has a hammerlock on
education well how about
teachers okay so let's divide that let's
talk about teachers as educated people
and then we could talk about teachers
unions okay so question one what
political party do the teachers unions
overwhelmingly support well that's the
Democrats it's like 97% of their
donations are to the Democrats so that's
a good thing to keep in mind when you're
thinking about the fact that that's
where you spend half your state money
and then the other thing to consider and
this is called an engineering
terminology a single point of failure
that the faculties of Education control
teacher certification and so then we
might say well just exactly who are the
faculties of education and so then we
could say um the most incompetent and
radical possible of all the
University disciplines who
simultaneously attract the arguably the
lowest quality and laziest students and
so why would I say that well first of
all because I've been following
educational psychology for four decades
with some degree of expertise and
concentration and it's a to call that
field appalling is to barely scrape the
surface virtually everything that
education psychologists have discovered
is not only wrong scientifically but
dangerous ideologically and
developmentally whole word learning
there's a good example social emotional
learning there's another one multiple
intelligences there's another one um
self-esteem training there's another one
none of those things are valid
scientifically and every single one of
them is positively and overwhelmingly
harmful and that can be l at the feet of
the educational psychologist and so and
then in terms of lowquality students
it's like well there's no evidence
whatsoever that being trained as a
teacher makes you a better teacher and
it's certainly not the sort of thing
that the faculties of Education have
tried to produce evidence about because
they're not interested in doing actual
science and so and then with regards to
laziness it's like well what's the
default degree for people who are
dragging their ass around University and
don't know which way is up
and so and I'm pretty much attracted by
the fact that there's two months of
holidays a year so and is that a two
scathing a diagnosis not even a bit it's
not nearly scathing enough now who might
you blame that on well you could blame
it on the faculties of education and the
universities and the students themselves
and the professors and they all played
their role or you could blame it on the
idiot conservatives who've been asleep
at the bloody wheel for four generations
and let the radical incompetent
resentful leftists take over the entire
education system and then gave them half
of all the money that the state spent so
it's like the conservatives what are
they asleep at the wheel well they're
still asleep at the wheel because even
in Republican states the faculties of
Education have a hammerlock on teacher
certification and so you want to lose
the culture War well hey uh boys and
girls on the conservative side and the
classical liberals well you already lost
the culture War so uh congratulations on
that side so your diagnosis about the
corruption in the education system is
spot on and is that remediable I doubt
it yeah I mean that that's precisely
right uh there's a very
Illuminating book uh released by I he
was at Indiana State University at one
point I'm not sure if he's there now uh
his name is Isaac goddman and he's a
Marxist educational scholar and he
released this book called the critical
turn education where he lays out the
critical Marxist infiltration from
within the discipline this is a person
who's working in this
discipline uh of the schools of
Education starting in the 60s he starts
his book uh paragraph one line one
quoting from Paul Bull's classic Marxism
in the United States and he says where
did all of the 60s radicals go neither
to religious cults nor yepy but to the
classroom and then he writes an entire
book about critical Marxist going
rushing into as prescribed by Herbert
marusa who was a critical Marxist I'm
sure you're aware of as prescribed by
him in the 60s right into the education
schools into uh professions at all
levels I mean it it's it's so obvious I
was I was reading something the other
day it was released by the CIA and I'm
not sure if that's because someone at
the CIA wrote it it was a collection of
documents it was old it was published
online in like 2003
about uh the free the Free Speech
movement of the 60s radicals which you
can hardly characterize it as free
speech you want to talk about amont and
Bailey what they were after was not free
speech um he was characterizing it he's
sitting here and it was the president of
one of these universities and he's
asking himself he's completely perplexed
by the idea that students have chosen
the university to plunder and take over
the system and I'm sitting here reading
this like well conservatives Mr provos
or president
of course that's where everyone is
certified to do all of the work that's
where everyone starts their career
through the university it's the the
Marxist figured out in the 60s that the
problem of reproduction of society is
solved in the university and that's why
they rushed in there and it's
absolutely uh it's
absolutely proof positive of what's
Happening you can just I mean they've
got numerous books I've read dozens of
books in and hundreds of papers and
maybe thousands of dissertations from
people within these departments and they
all say the same thing so it's just
miraculous that conserves have missed
well they're doing exactly yeah well
it's yeah well you know that's what
happens when you put your head in the
sand and you you're not interested in
why would you bother studying
philosophy why would you bother studying
literature well how about because
literature describes the way we think
and
philosophy is the analysis of the
structures that guide our perception and
our actions how about that well I'm
interested in more practical things it's
like well that's all well and good when
the underlying philosophy is in place
when the underlying philosophy that's in
place is functional and allows you to
attend to your practical matters but
it's a pretty dangerous form of willful
blindness and disinterest when the whole
goddamn thing has become corrupt beyond
belief now you know this t over of the
faculties of Education like this is
truly metastasized in The Last 5 Years
we're at the point in Canada now for
example where the university programs
that train clinical psychologists for
example to be weak need Lily livered
cowards in relationship to such
travesties as gender affirming care
let's say they can't get accredited as
training institutions for clinical
psychologists unless they have a social
justice orientation which basically
basically means a Marxist postmodernist
orientation because of course that's
exactly what you want in your clinical
psychologist because everything is about
group Consciousness at the psychological
level or so say the tyrannical marxists
and it's not just education it's
education it's law it's medicine and
increasingly it's science technology
engineering and Mathematics and I would
say the most blatant evidence for that
at the moment is the ideological
takeover of the two leading science
journals in the world science and nature
by the kinds of marxists who proclaimed
this week for example that scientists
thought this was nature all around the
world are rejoicing between because
camela Harris's mother was a scientist
and so she's pro-science in the
appropriate way and of course her father
was a Marxist professor and uh I don't
remember if that made it into the
article or not and so there's an
explicit political stance being taken on
the part of the editors of nature which
for 150 years was the place where every
scientist in the world regardless of
discipline made their reputation one
publication in nature one publication in
science you could if you were a first
author you were qualified to be hired at
a top level position at any University
there was in a scientific discipline
that's the power those journals have and
they've been taken over by the bloody
ideologues and so the infiltration is
radical and complete and conservatives
were 100% asleep at the wheel the same
thing can be said about scientists like
I saw this
coming eight years ago more probably 10
when I really started to become aware of
it I thought oh I see the neo-marxist
postmodernists have taken over the
humanities they've infiltrated the
social sciences and now they're heading
for the hard Sciences like the
engineering faculties and people thought
or told me well you know they never get
anywhere with the scientists and I
thought are you absolutely out of your
mind scientists are apolitical the
godamn radicals will go through them
like hot like a hot knife through butter
they won't know what hit them they'll
have absolutely no defense whatsoever
just like James deore had no no defense
and of course that
proceeding at a pace that takeover which
is really the demise of science really
the demise of science a very fragile
Enterprise at best that's preceding a
pace at a rate that's really quite
miraculous so so the conservatives have
plenty on their conscience it's like you
guys were asleep at the whale and you
let the radicals Infiltrate
The you let them parasitize the wealth
of the West that's been built buil up
since the end of World War II
including the minds of the
young
paing so that's what you discovered how
much fun for you it's absolutely brutal
and you know um we characterize in the
book The queering of the American child
we characterize this as a religious cult
we we're we very forward in the very
first line of the book education is in
the grip of a religious cult and for
anyone who is listen to cult survivors
or spoken to someone who is currently in
a cult or has studied Cults to any
degree whatsoever you quickly find that
the levers of control are social and
emotional and those are things we are
just all super susceptible to and one of
the things the left has done a brilliant
job with over the last 60 years is
developing tactics of Social and
emotional leverage that can help bulldo
bulldo your your reasonable and rational
faculties I was just talking to my my
father uh earlier this week about this
you know he was asking me how can
brilliant people believe such ridiculous
things you had talked about nature I
think it was in as early as 2015 they
were they were publishing articles
saying sex redefined there's no
biological basis for sex it's a spectrum
and we're thinking my God where is this
coming from and he said how how to
rational reasonable people who are very
well educated who are doing very well
from them how how do they fall for this
and the conversation uh went in a
direction where basically said well from
the perspective of Social and emotional
leverage it's it's no wonder they've
fallen for it because we don't have many
defense defense mechanisms for that and
the ones we do have are really dusty and
Rusty because they've been under attack
for a very long time um so it's not it's
not a surprise that so many people are
overwhelmed by this because it's not fun
to be ostracized or selected out the
singled out shot down singled out and
shot down definitely and the yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah it's very powerful weapon
right yeah I mean we uh one of the books
we quote in our book The queering of the
American child was Robert Jay lifton's
book and I'm sure you're you're familiar
with Robert J lifton he was a expert in
cult psychology he he wrote a really
famous book called thought reform in the
psychology of totalism a study of
brainwashing in China and what he did
was he interviewed those who came out of
Ma's brainwashing camps their thought
reform prisons and he kind of laid out
how Cults operate really for the first
time that I'm aware of and when you you
look through his list that now is I
don't know 60 or 70 years old you see
all of that in places like our schools
it's almost entirely a social and
emotional game so I'm not too surprised
that even when people were bright enough
to perceive that something was wrong
that they didn't have defenses for it
just because that game is a strong one
that that that magic is is very
difficult to
overcome starting a business can be
tough but thanks to Shopify running your
online storefront is easier than ever
Shopify is the global Commerce platform
that helps you sell at every stage of
your business from the launch your
online shop stage all the way to the did
we just hit a million orders stage
Shopify is here to help you grow our
marketing team uses Shopify every day to
sell our merchandise and we love how
easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions with
Shopify customize your online store to
your style with flexible templates and
Powerful tools alongside an endless list
of Integrations and thirdparty apps like
on demand printing accounting and chat
Bots Shopify helps you turn browsers
into buyers with the internet's best
converting checkout up to 36% better
compared to other leading e-commerce
platforms no matter how big you want to
grow Shopify gives you everything you
need to take control and take your
business to the next level sign up for a
$1 per month trial period at shopify.com
jbp all lowercase go to shopify.com jbp
now to grow your business no matter what
stage you're in that's shopify.com
jbp yeah well the thing is too is that
real scientists let's say real
mathematicians they're not
political because if you're going to be
a top performing scientist so let's say
in the top 1% of your field which is
where all the work is done right all the
other 99% that's all practice that's all
training that's
all mostly wrong because most studies
don't replicate most scientific research
is erroneous but 1% of it isn't and if
you want to be in that 1% well you
better be super bright first of all and
then you better be like 99th percentile
conscientiousness conscientious so all
you do is work all the time on your area
of specialty like 80 hours a week flat
out with your students you don't have
time for anything else and that's
wonderful when the universities have put
four layers of wall between you and the
you in the world and you're funded by
people who actually want to generate
knowledge so that you can pursue your
obsessional concern with some scientific
triviality that might lead to a real
Discovery for the 15 years that it takes
you to become a domain expert but it's
completely counterproductive when you're
under assault by resentful parasites and
that's where we're at you know our
language is very polluted and and
perverted as well and even in this
conversation we're falling prey to the
terminology of the radicals we talk
about capitalism that's a pathological
word we're really talking about free
exchange right the free exchange of
goods services and ideas right not
capitalism and this isn't left versus
right if you oppose the radicals you're
not right-wing you're not even
conservative what we have what we're in
is a war between the resentful
hedonistic and power mad and everyone
else right so that it's not a political
war if you're right and I think you are
it's a theological War
and AR raid on one side are definitely
the forces of resentment Hedonism and
power right and if you're a good cynic
you think that's all there is because
there's no there's where the
postmodernism comes into play there's no
uniting metan narrative outside of the
claims of power Hedonism and
resentment right and you know if you're
cynical nihilistic it's very easy to
believe that especially if it's serves
your self-interest your heathenism and
your desire for power and so you can
wave that in front of bitter people like
a meat covered bone in front of a
ravenous dog and Away you'll go leading
them down the path of predition to
totalitarian hell which is a pathway
we've trod several times in the 20th
century all right to everyone's great
dismay and so okay so it's the
it's not a political struggle so let's
go back to the children easy sell to
Children there's something else too
that's hard on the conservative types
let's say
um so when the appeal like the appeal
that you described being made by people
like Kimberly Crenshaw and Judith Butler
who's perhaps the worst of the worst
except for maybe Fuko
uh see they also appeal to creative
people because a creative person does
have an issue with
normality because if you're creative
which means you're high in openness
you're not
normal you're identity is protein and
fluid and if you're young and creative
you're in a weird mind because your
talent will serve you extremely well
if you can find a position where it can
be utilized but it makes you an
absolutely brutally miserable
employee in a job that
requires what that you inhabit a a box
and you act like everyone else well that
isn't the creative person's Niche you
know I did a study at Harvard that we
never published when piercing and
tattooing became common in the 1990s I
did a study with a fellow
psychopathologist looking at whether the
proclivity to tattoo and Pierce which
was still kind of countercultural at the
time was an indication of
Psychopathology and we found out that it
wasn't it was just associated with the
trade openness it was just an expression
of
creativity the blue haired woke type
that hair coloring with the piercings
that's a reflection of openness and the
patholog pathological ideology of the
anti-normative
radicals does also appeal to creative
young people because they actually do
have fluid identities and they don't fit
in and so that's another place where the
oversimplifying LIE finds a ready
audience so of course if you're a
creative young person you're going to
feel that you're at odds with the
heteronormative CIS patriarchy because
you
are right now that doesn't mean that you
shouldn't be grateful for the fact that
you're not scrabbling around in the dirt
like a peasant from the 13th century but
unless someone has sat you down
carefully and explained that to you and
that's certainly not going to happen in
the education system you're just going
to feel that the world is a RAID against
someone with your generative talents
which of course it is
because normal
society never incorporates the creative
because it's a one-size fits-all
solution
I should add um that children are easier
targets for obvious reasons they just
don't have a model of the world they
haven't they have no way of orienting
orienting themselves correctly in the
world they're just too young they don't
have the experience they're supposed to
have adults in their lives that help
with that but I will also add that
especially in in the domain of queer
Theory the abuse is intentional uh one
of the people we quote in the book Kevin
kumashiro he's a he's one of these queer
Educators and I I I should before I
continue with that I should Define what
I mean by queer because that's something
people immediately get wrong our
definition we use in the book we use the
word over 1300 times it may be a
Guinness record our definition we take
directly from David Halprin in his 1995
book Michelle or St Fuko towards a gay
hagiography where he's essentially
trying to make Michelle Fuko a gay Saint
and in his book he says that that would
that would be the Michelle Fuko who uh
had a proclivity to take young boys into
graveyards and have his hedonistic way
with them that St Fuko gentleman who
spent his who bent his IQ of 180 his
entire life in in service of justifying
the perversions that he was absolutely
unable to control even when he had AIDS
even when he knew it that Fuko that Fuko
St M that Fuko oh yeah so I just wanted
to make sure that we were talking about
the same person that's the same Fuko who
is the most cited scholar in the world
that's right that Michelle Fuko okay
well good so we're definitely talking
about the same Stellar guy yeah so the
definition we use it's that it's that
Fuko is David halpin's and and it is the
definition that all of queer Theory
recognizes even though when you've read
their papers they say it escapes
definition it can't be categorized of
course that's what they're going to say
cuz that's the whole program but David
Halprin says that queer is defined in
this way he says unlike gay
identity queer identity need not be
grounded in any positive truth or in any
stable reality queer acquires its its
meaning from its oppositional relation
to the norm quer is by definition
whatever is at odds with the normal the
legitimate the dominant there is nothing
in particular to which it necessarily
refers it is an identity without an
Essence that's the definition we're
going with it has essentially nothing to
do with being it's right away unlike gay
nothing to do with it it's actually
antithetical towards it because these
and sure Gay is a stable identity it's
stable you lose the Revolutionary
potential if you happen to be gay and
you're living a great life and you're
happy you fit into a well-functioning
prosperous Society they've lost the
resentment you're not going to work get
out of here so before I before I
continue I just wanted to to clarify
that point because that's a point that
requires clarification yeah um that's
crucial because otherwise it sound it's
easy for people to presume that queer is
just a minor variant of gay no and that
definition well that's if that
definition doesn't send chills down your
spine you're dangerously naive because
that's a that's an identity that's
predicated on the negation of identity
as such both psychologically and
socially that also means technically
that it's a and this is relevant to the
observ ations by Jonathan height and
others that radical that the radical
Progressive agenda is associated with a
an Market increase in mental illness an
unstable identity Dooms you to a dir of
positive emotion that's hopelessness and
an excess of negative emotion that's
anxiety like an unstable identity a an
unstable self-questioning antithetical
identity is indistinguishable from
psychological suffering and social
disunity they're the same thing right so
it's a celebration of well there's your
postmodernism for you that would be a
fractionation of the meta narrative all
the way down to the microscopic nothing
unifies anything right and it's not even
I I would even Jes brutal I would even
add that it's it's not an identity at
all because there's no essential quality
to it what it is is it's a spiritual
position it's a stance you take it's an
orientation in the world against
anything considered normal anything
considered legitimate and what makes the
teaching of this to children I I I
wanted to to add to this it's not just
that kids are to easier to brainwash
let's say it's that the queer theorists
are very specific that their program is
abusive to Children they've got a
program that's
designed to pull social and emotional
levers to make children accept this so
the the person I was talking about
earlier Kevin
kumashiro queer activist he wrote A Few
papers that will uh just floor you his
paper against repetition was the reason
I wrote this book I read that paper and
I said okay that's it now this is the
book to WR people have to know he said
that Educators have a responsibility to
pull children into crisis a
responsibility so that that crisis can
be resolved productively and what he
means by this from within the context of
queer theory is that queer Theory argues
that kids want to be normal of course
they do and if they're Desiring to be
normal and to plug into a society that's
working a well-functioning
society then they can't experience the
queer the definition that we just
discussed they can't experience it if
that's what they're Desiring so you need
to interrupt that desire to fit in with
something and that something is Crisis
what he says
is one of the ways you do this is you
explain to kids that they may hold
racist beliefs that they weren't aware
of
you might hold homophobic beliefs that
you weren't aware of and then you've got
this special knowledge that's coming
from the queer theorist about all of the
isms and phobias that no one can
perceive but them just like a cult Guru
or a cult leader they've got this
Gnostic Insight the special knowledge
that you've need to be initiated into
and they drive cognitive dissonance into
the child they the technical term is
trauma bonding they traumatize the child
you're a racist you don't know it you're
a sexist you don't know it the kid wants
to resolve this trauma and then to Kevin
kishiro's words we help them resolve it
productively so we help use that trauma
to well re resolve it in what okay I I
want to ask you that let let me take
apart a couple of things that you said
okay so the first thing that we should
point out is
that there is no difference between
being socialized and being normal and
fitting in those are the same thing
right and so the technical way of
thinking about that is that well if
you're socialized you can play a game
with other people th those those
concepts are
indistinguishable now if you can play a
game with other people well first of all
that means you can play a game and it
also means you can play and it means
that other people can stand you and that
you can interact with them peacefully
when you cooperate and when you compete
and that you can organize yourselves
with others to pursue a joint aim that's
all in the notion of play okay well of
course you have to be normal and fit in
because if you all are playing a game
you all follow the same rules because
otherwise you're not all playing the
same game okay now it's obviously the
case and this would be the grain of
Truth is that you can
subjugate that creative Essence that
might enable you to discover a better
game if you're too much of a conformist
but it's still the case that your
primary goal as a child from the age of
2 to 18 is fitting
in that's what your goal is right
because that's what it means to be
socialized now you can understand why
that would grate against the conscience
of someone whose fundamental orientation
was creative because they're going to be
the ones that pay the biggest
psychological price for that in a sense
but at least they'll be able to play
games with others to cooperate to
compete to take Aim with other people
and to have friends like that's not
nothing plus it's also what social
stability itself depends on right so we
have to be very clear about what it is
that's being critiqued here they're
actually
critiquing socialized maturity itself
right right okay now the the the Curious
Thing would be though okay so now you
put the child in crisis now you could
justify that by saying well there's no
Learning Without Pain
the question is what's being offered as
a resolution because if the stance is um
only the identity that opposes so that's
that's like right out of
Milton's Paradise Lost right because
Satan himself is the spirit that opposes
that's his
definition he's nothing but the spirit
that opposes so it's a very good way of
understanding that at a theological
level there's no unity in the spirit
that opposes you can't rectify an
existential crisis by identifying with
the spirit of that opposes if you
identify with the spirit of that opposes
you end up in Hell metaphysically
speaking well practically speaking for
that matter and perhaps even
theologically speaking so what the hell
is the resolution supposed to be the
there there is none from the outside
there is none but the the way it is sold
is the resolution is you find your true
self you find your your gender identity
it's it's whatever you feel it is
because again it's the the the way so
that that basically puts you at the whim
of your emotions your momentto moment
emotions
correct right I mean what like if it's
if it's what you feel because I don't
know what the hell that means but let's
say it means whatever motivates you at
the moment or whatever emotion grips you
what that essentially means is that you
occupy precisely the same existential
space as a very badly behaved and
Wayward 2-year-old
because that's the world of a 2-year-old
it's one emotion after another one
motivational state after another with no
overarching psychological or social
Unity right that's all inculcated you
think the constructionists would know
that that's all inculcated as a
consequence of cortical maturation and
socialization so I see so the solution
to the existential crisis is what the
clamoring plethora of possession by
primordial emotional states well there
now you see what the Unholy Alliance is
between the bloody hedonists and the
power worshippers the free child is one
who's the slave of their emotions
brilliant What A pathway to misery that
is right yeah precisely and it's it's
um it's it it becomes really dark when
you when you understand precisely what
they what that process is meant to do
for the child and you know Fuko said
this and Butler echoed it in gender
trouble and this is a big misconception
with with people who' have read queer
Theory and I've seen their critiques on
it is that Fuko said the soul is the
prison of the body the body is not the
prison of the soul and and Butler again
Echoes this and she say oh my God
unbelievable she says she says unlike
what Christian imagery would suggest the
soul is the prison of the body and what
they mean by this
is that we are born into we are born
into a
society that has a social cultural and
political soul to it a zist and what
that thing does is it it possesses us
and under this possession we are
convinced to materialize our bodies
actions behaviors love
interests as that Society wants us to so
it's not it's not forcing us it's not
it's it's obvious
obviously that's the definition of
social right animals who aren't social
do exactly what they want to do and in
the moment all the time so so so
so there's a reason that the Christian
West put the crucifix at the center of
its
cities the reason is that the
community is founded on sacrifice
which is exactly the observation that
Butler and Fuko are making accepted
reverse their point is well we're
sacrificing what our bodies okay what
does that mean we're sacrificing our
instinctive whims well yeah that is what
you're doing if you're going to be
social because if it's all about you you
are the sort
of absolutely present focused
conscienceless psychopath that everybody
should run away from as rapidly as
possible and it's certainly the case
that St Michelle and likely Madame
Butler herself fit very nicely into that
category so they're right you know
they're right the soul is
the prison of the body if you presume
that the whims of the body are
equivalent to the highest
possible
value but if you think that a 2-year-old
who's in the midst of a temper tantrum
is not doing any service to himself or
the community then you're going to be a
little bit more firmly on the side of
the of the
Soul you know the the cortex
itself the cortex itself which develops
under the influence of
socialization is
the has
evolved to integrate the emotions and
motivations that the postmodernist
nistic neom Marxist want to
worship you might as well be a
decorticate animal like driven by your
hypothalamus and all that is is like
misery and Chaos right well they they
don't think stunning again back to the
queer definition they don't think there
is any essential quality I mean we're
just born in meat sacks some of them
happen to have penises some of them
happen to have vaginas there is nothing
determinant from their position about
anything that goes on inside your body
it is all possession through Society so
right right right right the same that
there's the postmodernism again there's
no Essence right right and and the
marxists were the same way it's all
socially constructed there's no reality
at the bottom of things there's no
essential human nature there's certainly
no Noble human nature but that but the
thing is they still worship whim
and and immediacy that that's the thing
that's so perverse because the logical
conclusion of that kind of reasoning is
a dead
nihilism right there's there's no
rationale for any forward impetus
whatsoever by
definition so there's a there's a hidden
God underneath all of that ideological
justification while there's two it's
Heen you know in the Book of Revelation
which is a vision of the end times the
destructive ethos is the Unholy alliance
between the de generate patriarchal
State that's the Scarlet Beast the
multi-headed Scarlet Beast and the
of Babylon right it's the death dance of
power and Hedonism and those are the
gods that arise
when the Transcendent the proper
sacrificial transcendental Unity is
forgone right and so Butler and Fuko can
talk all they want about no uniting
ethos but they just default to power and
Hedonism and you know in the Book of
Revelation it's so interesting because
the the Scarlet Beast which is the
degenerate patriarchal State kills the
so the offering is you can do
whatever you want with whoever you want
at any time you choose but the reality
is you'll end up with nothing and
certainly not the gratification of your
infantile whims certainly not that so
dark man well that's the problem with
looking at things
theologically yeah yeah
it's um you can go to a dark place being
stuck especially in you know the
Theology of Marxism in general but queer
Theory specifically we we didn't include
a lot of stuff in the book that we could
have to really make other
points um simply because they're not
readable I mean you there's some key
terms I could give you that you could
search in some books to find it for
yourself but it's just it's um it's dark
stuff well okay look we've we've done an
hour and a half here why don't we talk
exactly about those
terms on The Daily wire side of
this okay yeah sure so and and be before
we do that so for everyone watching and
listening most of you know this but I do
an extra half an hour with my guests um
on The Daily wire platform behind the
pay wall and that gives me a chance to
well return to the Daily ire the favor
that they do to me and to everyone by
making this by producing this podcast
and making it freely available to
everyone but it also gives me a chance
to do a deeper dive on some specific
issue so I think we found the issue that
we should do a deeper dive into uh The
Forbidden elements of the postmodern
neo-marxist Unholy Alliance let's say so
you could join us everyone who's
watching and listening you could join us
on the daily wi side for that that's
what we'll do um before we do that
we've essentially we've focused our
discussion
on and in some ways on the definition of
queerness but also on elucidating the
nature of Marxism and the nature of
postmodernism and the manner in which
they've come together I think that's a
good summary of what we've managed to
accomplish is there anything that you'd
like to bring to the attention of those
who are watching and listening in
relationship to your work and to the
broader culture at the moment
that that you want to cover before we
turn our attention to these more
specific issues yeah I'll just say uh
curiosity can go a long way I I recently
wrote a piece that was published on new
discourses which is uh associated with
Dr James Lindsay who's the co-author on
the queering of the American child and
it was titled curiosity is a cult killer
U my advice would to be be curious and
one thing I say to many of the the
parents that I talk to around the
country is that you need to have it
there's not an easy way out of this but
you can be in control of your own family
and it's really important to have an
ironclad relationship with your child
and to really listen to them and to
cultivate them and to talk to them about
what's happening because as we just saw
in California I mean the number of
parents now in the country prior to the
law California the number of parents in
the country who by District policy and
definition would not be notified if
their child decided to adopt a new
gender identity in school was over 10
million already and that's prior to what
just happened with the California so you
need to be talking to your kids they're
you have to have an ironclad
relationship with them because as we
mentioned earlier the educational
apparatus has been entirely hijacked
read the book to learn more about that
and there's no one coming in my
estimation to say Us in the short term
so it's up to you and talk to your kids
so I just interviewed Elon Musk you know
and he resolved his existential crisis
of meaninglessness when he was a
adolescent
by putting the pursuit of curiosity
let's say in the highest place and you
know that's a very
ancient medication for delusional
nihilism because the god of the Old
Testament for example is frequently
characterized as the spirit of what
calls to you calling in conscience you
know and in your case you could see both
of those at work it was curiosity that
drove you into this but it was also the
prick of conscience in relationship to
the responsibility that you have for
your children right so what's the proper
Spirit that's placed in the Heavenly
hierarchy above power henis resentment
and arrogance let's say uh that's the
Divinity of calling in
conscience right right that's the north
star that guides you forward the North
Stars that guide you forward right one
specifies the aim and other the other
keeps you on the straight and narrow
right and that's a sacrificial Journey
so and that's definitely what these
queer theorists the Unholy postmodern
neo-marxists that's definitely what
they're opposed to to and make no
mistake about it right okay well for
everybody watching and listening we're
going to continue this Oho optimistic
discussion diagnostic discussion on The
Daily wire side so join us for that um
and thank you very much for sharing
your dis process of discovery and the
consequences of that with everybody
who's watching and listening absolutely
thanks for having me
[Music]